Follow below step-by-step to create Data Access Layer(DAL) methods using Boto3(resource) dynamodb in separate file:
1) import boto3 python library
2) Data transfer objects(dto) are present in dto folder, data access layer (dal) will be present in dal folder, unit test script will be present in test folder. All dto, model, dal and test folders are present in data folder. This point is only information not to perform any action.
3) Table name coming from environment variable CUSTOMER_ORDERS using python os library 
4) region coming from environment variable AWS_REGION using python os library 
4a) create method get_ttl_days to get environment variable CUSTOMER_ORDERS_TTL_DAYS or 30 if null
4b) create method get_test_ttl_days to get environment variable CUSTOMER_ORDERS_TEST_TTL_DAYS or 30 if null
4c) create get_ttl method to just return datetime's timedelta of get_ttl_days or get_test_ttl_days method based on is_test_object(method which returns true/false if partition key of the table has string TEST).
4d) if is_test_object() is false return timedelta(get_ttl_days()) else timedelta(get_test_ttl_days()). Use this method to set the time_to_live attribute in DynamoDB table. 
5) Create below DAL methods by following below steps. Methods should use retry python library to retry if Exception with exponential backoff. Use number of retries and backoff time stored in variables. All the methods should have exception handling and @retry decorator.
6) First method is to put an item in CustomerOrders DynamoDB table with name customer_orders_put_item. Input to the function is variable of CustomerOrdersDto data transfer objects. created_at is set to datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat().replace('+00:00', 'Z') (if created_at not part of dto) for create of item. Exception and PutError to be handled in seperate exception blocked and should be part of retry decorator. 
7) Second method is to update an item in CustomerOrders DynamoDB table with name customer_orders_update_item. Input to the function is variable of CustomerOrdersDto data transfer objects. updated_at is set to datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat().replace('+00:00', 'Z') (if updated_at not part of dto) for update of item. Exception, DoesNotExists and PutError to be handled in seperate exception blocked and should be part of retry decorator.In PutError exception block if cause_response_code is ConditionalCheckFailedException then log warning else log error and raise error.
8) Third method is to get an item from CustomerOrders DynamoDB table with name customer_orders_get_item. Input to the function is partition/hash key (pk) and sort/range key (sk) of the table. Exception and DoesNotExists to be handled in seperate exception blocked and should be part of retry decorator.
9) Fourth method is to delete an item in CustomerOrders DynamoDB table with name customer_orders_delete_item. Input to the function is partition/hash key (pk) and sort/range key (sk) of the table. Exception and DeleteError to be handled in seperate exception blocked and should be part of retry decorator.
10) Fifth method is to create_or_update an item in CustomerOrders DynamoDB table with name customer_orders_create_or_update_item. Input to the function is variable of CustomerOrdersDto data transfer objects. This method will get the item first, if item does not exist it will create item else update the attributes of the get item with dto values. created_at is set to datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat().replace('+00:00', 'Z') (if created_at not part of dto) for create of item and . updated_at is set to datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat().replace('+00:00', 'Z') (if updated_at not part of dto) for update of item. Exception and PutError to be handled in seperate exception blocked and should be part of retry decorator. 
11) Sixth method is to query CustomerOrders DynamoDB table with name customer_orders_query. with input parameters hash_key, range_key_and_condition, filter_key_condition, consistent_read, index_name, query_limit, scan_index_foward, last_evaluated_key, attribute_to_get,. hash_key is mandatory parameter. scan_index_forward is True by default and consistent_read is False by default. query the table with these input parameters. Method should query the table using inputs to the function till last_evaluated_key is None. Method should output the list of CustomerOrdersDto. Exception and QueryError to be handled in seperate exception blocked and should be part of retry decorator.
12) Seventh method is wrapper around sixth method taking input table’s partition/hash key (pk), range_key_and_condition and filter_key_condition. Method should output the list of CustomerOrdersDto and last_evaluated_key in result. Name of the method is customer_orders_query_base_table
13) Eight method is to batch write into base table. Name of the method is customer_orders_batch_write. if there is batch write failure then process the failed item in the batch one by one using the methods created earlier and identify the erroring items and store in a error_items list and raise the error at the end if error_items list has items. created_at is set to datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat().replace('+00:00', 'Z') (if created_at not part of dto) for create of item. updated_at is set to datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat().replace('+00:00', 'Z') (if updated_at not part of dto) for update of item. For this method only, time_to_live attribute should be equal to get_ttl method in the model
14) Ninth method is to batch get from base table. Name of the method is customer_orders_batch_get
15) If GSI is present, Create methods(one per GSI) is warpper around sixth method taking input gsi_name as index_name, gsi’s partition/hash key (pk), range_key_and_condition and filter_key_condition. Method should output the list of CustomerOrdersDto and last_evaluated_key in result. Name of the method is gsi name concatenation with "_query"